Hey everyone and welcome back.
In this lecture Regan to be talking about keeping yourself organized in front of us we have a sort of
semi organized folder that I have been working on.
Now I will hold my hand up and say I tend to be quite good when I'm in a program making sure things
like layers are named appropriately.
However outside the program I can be a little bit disorganized as you can see here some things are in
folders.
Some things are not.
They're not really categorized some have numbers at the beginning some are just names.
I mean what is going on here.
Am I clear.
A couple of weeks you know might pass and I have a look at this folder and if I'm not sure what's going
on.
Well it's no good is it.
If I don't know what's going on no one else is going to.
Now it is important when we're talking about keeping yourself organized.
We are talking about an ideology that will change depending on who you're working with what project
you're working on.
So naming especially naming that's the one of the key things.
If you don't know what fire one fire 2 5 3 and 5 4 mean.
Well I'm guessing there are fire but it doesn't tell me anything else doesn't tell me anything about
their size at the moment.
That's one of the things it also would get a bit silly if I have 50 different fires.
I wouldn't know what any of them were.
If one said raging fire and one said ALL fire or explosion you know something more descriptive than
just the word fire.
And these are things that obviously will develop and grow as you create more and more art work.
Now I as I said Nay my layers as I create them because I find that if I don't know what the layer is
when I'm looking there it can be quite hard to tell by the thumb now.
So naming them there you get a real impactive you haven't named That's mishu When you working on a particular
image with multiple layers on it.
However keeping your folders tidy means that when you come back to your projects later on you know exactly
what's going on.
Now there are several things going on here.
I've got a mixture of the gimp files themselves.
Unfortunately they don't have a preview option.
You can install some plug ins which allow you to see gimp files but that's not across all operating
systems and I've also got some of my renders my final outputs.
My exports all jumbled in together and then I've got sectioned challenge.
Well that doesn't mean selection challenge.
Oh not Section challenged my my mistake selection challenge grading challenge feel challenged bottom
hard all that I'll be coming up soon that's just getting ready for it.
And this one has fiery examples.
And then we have a lection number as well going along with it so there's a bit of a discontinuity between
what's going on here and what we're seeing is actually something that you should embrace and that's
the fact that things will change as you progress through a project.
So obviously at some point I've found that just naming it is fine for what I've been working on.
However later on I've decided that it will be more appropriate to have the actual lecture number along
with it so I know what it relates to.
Of course I haven't updated any of the previous stuff which is kind of less a bit of a mess here.
And part of that mess I assure you is it goes I want to demonstrate what can happen as a project progresses
and there is some truth in that as well.
I am not totally tidy when it comes to working on projects although I try my best to be and I know that
some of you out there are going to be right on the ball with this.
You want things to be named appropriately.
You're the sort of person that everything has a place and everything is in its place as well.
I am a bit of a halfway house sometimes I am sometimes I'm not.
And this folder itself is not too bad at the moment.
I recognize there's a problem that's why I've come in and produce this lecture specifically on making
sure you keep yourself organized.
It enables you to work much much better and it also enables you to work better in a group of people.
You're not always going to be working by yourself now when you're working with a group you will have
to accept that naming and filing will be group focussed rather than personal focussed.
So whereas you might just name things how you feel about it.
You will decide as a group if you are working in a group that say all the fires end up in a folder called
fire rather than just leaving them as empty like this without any folder structure.
Now I would advise that you dont go ahead and create a folder unless you've got something to put in
the folder and certainly don't go nesting folders within folders within folders because that bit just
becomes as bad as leaving everything in one area.
Now if you've named some.
Really really well you can search.
So obviously I've got things called fire I can go ahead and search for something called fire.
And fortunately I got some exports here that line up with these so I can have a glimpse at what they
might be.
I don't know whether they line up with them.
It's been too long since I looked at this and I know they do line up with them but there is a possibility
that you end up with something with the same name and there's actually something completely different
so it's worthwhile making sure that you have descriptive naming and then you can just search for it
doesn't really matter where it's stored at that point.
But more importantly if someone else is working with you they understand what that firewall is as well
and perhaps how it's going to be use.
There's a lot you can give across with simple naming but descriptive naming rather than just fire one
fire to fire three so for instance fire one could say fire three is definitely a fire ball so that could
be changed straight away fire for we call it raging fire.
I mean fire one is more like a candle flame.
I don't know what tooth tooth shaped fire EFTPOS for fired so there's lots of different options.
But as long as you know and understand what they are that's great and then taking a step a little further
from this just the naming here is embracing deleting the old An out of date work.
Now one could also argue here that these PND that I've created are now useless.
I've used them I've publish them.
I've shown people on the forum.
I've shown them in the chat I've used them so should they still be there because they are a cache.
They are an export of these particular files and if they just go ahead and sit there.
The question is why when you can get the information back again and this may lead you to update one
of these files and forget to explore and end up uploading the wrong information.
I see this so much with someone ends up uploading something.
That's the old version and then they go oh sorry sorry sorry.
So in do embrace deleting things.
I've got some examples here.
I'm quite happy on these fira examples.
Just go ahead hit the delete key and.
Oh is gone.
There we go.
So I've now gotten rid of that do embrace deleting your old and out of date work.
And this goes on when you start working and producing your old your own portfolio.
When you're putting together a portfolio you only want it to contain your best stuff.
You certainly don't want to bore the person you're looking out with hundreds of different things only
include in the portfolio the stuff that you want to show off.
Not absolutely everything.
The key.
The best stuff and keep pure old stuff.
In this case don't delete it keep it.
Be proud of how you've progressed as you develop yourself as an artist.
It is important to refer back because your progress will often be gradual and it's very easy to miss
and think you haven't progressed but then you look back and perhaps only a few weeks or even days ago
you would have improved dramatically so keeping yourself organized isn't difficult.
It does require a bit of self-discipline as you go.
And of course that leads us nicely on to a challenge and your challenge if you haven't already guessed
it is to tidy up your files and folders and one question I'd ask is are things named appropriately.
Have you got a situation like me where I've got a mixture of numbers dictating where the lectures are
and then some are just names in there.
Some of my files themselves.
Well what does fire one two three four five six you know infinitum.
How what does that actually mean.
Is it descriptive enough.
And then is there anything that is now redundant and can be deleted is there something you tried and
it just turned out to be in your mind rubbish or something you tried and it's just left there.
Is it now cluttering up your work environment.
If it is get rid of it.
Don't be afraid of that delete key.
Go ahead.
Pause a video now and tidy up your files and folders.
Hey guys welcome back.
So let's go ahead and see what I've done to tidy up my files and folders.
And here we go.
Here is my tidied up folder structure for the moment.
There is a final thing that I need to do here Matt.
Just put the numbers 11 on here.
So I still do have a bit of a mixture going on some of them can not be linked to an individual lecture
like the jewel swords.
That was one issue I came across.
I was thinking wow how do we solve that.
It's just one file at the moment.
You probably end up in something like a weapons folder or something along those lines rather than having
a number against it eventually.
Now the rest of them I've named them with numbers because that's how my projects is developing.
I'm creating this course you have.
You guys are following along.
And so each one of these represents particular lectures.
And that's how I want to structure mine.
So as I said before it does depend on the project that you're doing as the outcome of your file names.
Now there was one thing that cropped up and it made me realize that Renaming something can have disastrous
effects.
So if I am now going search my game my icons for a fire where there were four there are now only two.
And the reason for that is because I've renamed some of them with flame.
But if I wanted to keep the fire in there so if I search for fire it definitely comes up.
What I would need to do is go ahead enough upon of course include some going to go fire dasch candle
flame and in here are more so going to go fire dasch all.
Now you could argue at this point.
Well if I've done that for those Should I also have fired dash for the other ones.
Analysis as such.
Fire we get all four again.
Brilliant.
So should I have fired that raging fire fire abeche fireball.
Maybe.
Maybe not.
I'm going to leave it is simple at the pot as possible at the moment.
I am happy with raging fire and fireball so those things are all named so that if I search for fire
I can find them easily.
How did you guys get on do you come across any naming inconsistencies that you had your directory in
a complete state.
Now it's all nice and tidy.
It would be really interesting to see what you are naming your folders and your files.
And please do share that with us as well because it's nice to see what other people are doing so we
can all learn from each other as we go.
Make sure you let us know over in the discussions and I will see you guys in the next lecture.